doc(release) Release notes oss collect 25.10 nov25 (#4918)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-25.10/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 25.10.2

Release date: `December 17, 2025`
 
<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [Authentication] When a user is authenticated using an IdP, the password fields no longer appear when editing a contact.	

> - [Dashboards] Status Grid widget: new filter on state of resources (unhandled, acknowledged, in downtime, flapping) has been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Status Grid widget: added a new filter for the state of resources (unhandled, acknowledged, in downtime, flapping) has been added.
```

> - [Packaging] Increase php memory limit in centreon php configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Packaging] Increased the php memory limit in the centreon php configuration.
```

> - [Resource Status] Graphs containing more than 20 metrics are no longer displayed, for performance and readability reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] For performance and readability reasons, graphs containing more than 20 metrics are no longer displayed.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [ACL] Fixed issue when cumulating ACLs for a same user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ACL] Fixed an issue for users cumulating multiple ACLs that caused the ACL with the highest ID to override other ones.
```

> - [API] Fixed an issue where using Rest APIv1 changes the token expiration date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Fixed an issue where using Rest APIv1 would change the token expiration date.
```

> - [API] Fixed commands when requesting services in real time, using MySQL 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Fixed an issue that caused commands to return an SQL error when requesting services in real time using MySQL 8.
```

> - [API] Fixed wrong filtering on realtime service categories listing endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Fixed an issue with filtering on realtime service categories listing API endpoint.
```

- [APIv2] Fixed a 500 error when expiration_date = NULL in security_token.
- [Anomaly Detection] Fixed an issue on broker configuration generation with proxy parameters.
- [Authentication] Allowed to access Centreon UI through a reverse proxy/load balancer.

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on Hosts configuration where the host name configuration name restriction not align with export configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where host names could be saved with special characters but would then block cause "export configuration" to fail.
```

> - [Authentication] Fixed an issue where a user could lose their DN during an LDAP connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Fixed an issue where a users could lose their DN during an LDAP connection.
```

> - [Authentication] Fixed issue on LDAP authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Fixed issue with LDAP authentication crashing right after a success message.
```

> - [Authentication tokens] Fixed an issue when canceling action in confirmation modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication tokens] Fixed an issue when clicking "cancel" in the change confirmation modal that caused the token's status to be displayed as changed.
```

> - [BA monitoring page] Fixed issue when using dark mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [BA monitoring page] Fixed an issue that caused certain areas of the page to remain in light mode while dark mode was selected.
```

- [CEIP] Added data-testid on enable button for both direction.

> -	[CLAPI] Fixed an issu where the APPLYTPL command can take a long time to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CLAPI] Fixed an issue where the APPLYTPL command would take a long time to take effect.
```

- [Core] Fixed an issue with API routes.

> - [Configuration] Fixed an error when changing host template order in host form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an error when changing the host template order in the host configuration form.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration where engine was not listening if No TLS was activated (poller-initiated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration where engine was not listening if "No TLS" was activated (poller-initiated).
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue when searching Host in Agent configuration (Poller-initiated connection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Agent configuration (Poller-initiated connection) that prevented users from searching for the host.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host category was not displayed in listing when not linked to Host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where host categories were not displayed in the listing when not linked to Host.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue of page content mix-up when navigating between Host Groups and Additional configuration pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue of page content getting mixed-up when navigating between Host Groups and Additional configuration pages.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on bad display of escalation name with special character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue with special characters not displaying properly in the escalation configuration screen
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on remote servers, where max auto_increment was reached after many exports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue on remote servers, where max auto_increment was reached after many exports causing imports to fail.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue when switching CMA agent modes without filling all required fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue that allowed users to save changes when switching CMA agent modes without filling all required fields.
```

- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host templates cannot be used in Host categories by non-admininistrators.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host severities were no longer written in `resources` table.
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where inherited macros could not be overrided on Host/Host template.
- [Configuration] Fixed an undefined array key from acl users which were spamming php log.
- [Custom Views - Host-Monitoring] Fixed an issue where only the current page was exported instead of all data

> - [Dashboards] Fixed an issue preventing to get dashboards filtered by creator by API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed an issue preventing dashboards to be filtered.
```

- [Dashboards] Fixed an issue where host status icons were displayed incorrectly in the group monitoring widget.

> - [Dashboards] Resource Table widget - Fixed host name positioning issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Resource Table widget - Fixed an issue with the host name positioning.```

> - [Dashboards] Single Metric widget - Fixed the real-time retrieval of metric value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Single Metric widget - Fixed an issue with the real-time retrieval of metric values.
```

> - [Gorgone] Clarified Apache logs when gorgone connexion failed in discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Gorgone] Clarified Apache logs when gorgone connection failed in discovery.
```

> - [Hosts] Fixed an error where ACL Resource Groups field loses its value and displays a number instead of a string when a form error occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Hosts] Fixed an error where the ACL Resource Groups field would lose its value and display a number instead of a string when a form error occurs.
```

- [Licenses] Fixed an error message concerning the creation of a dynamic property in a class when downloading licences.

> - [Log] Fixed an issue where Error impCompanyPortal appears on /var/log/centreon/centreon-web.log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Log] Fixed an issue where "Error impCompanyPortal" would appear on /var/log/centreon/centreon-web.log.
```

> - [Medias] Fixed issue preventing pagination from being displayed properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Medias] Fixed an issue preventing pagination from being displayed properly.
```

> - [Monitoring] Fixed an issue on Summary by host group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Monitoring] Fixed an issue on Host Group Summary redirecting users to Resource Status.
```

> - [Open Tickets] Forced BBDO 3.0.1 instead of 3.1 on pollers, to prevent a blocking issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Open Tickets] Forced BBDO 3.0.1 instead of 3.1 on pollers to prevent a blocking issue.
```

> - [Performance Graphs] Fixed issue when exporting data in CSV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Performance Graphs] Fixed issue when exporting data in CSV that resulted in an empty file..
```

- [Resource Status] Prevent services related to a deleted host to appear in menu filter.
- [Translation] Added missing French translations.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

> - [Authentication] Password change attempts are now logged in a dedicated log file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Password change attempts (both successful and unsuccessful) are now logged in a dedicated log file.
```

- [Security] Enhanced security on password DOM storage in login page.

> - [Vulnerability]	Fixed an issue on Broken Access Control in Administration Parameters Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed an issue on Broken Access Control in Administration Parameters Endpoint.
```

- [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR on Custom Views.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the ACL Menus Access page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Hosts Configuration page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Recurrent Downtimes page.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability on export configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR vulnerability on Custom Views.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the ACL Menus Access page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Hosts Configuration page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Recurrent Downtimes page.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability on export configuration page.
```

## Centreon Collect

### 25.10.1

Release date: `December 17, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [CMA] CMA is now taking account retry_interval and max_attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CMA] CMA will now take into account retry_interval and max_attempts.
```

- [CMA] Freshness check are now taken into account.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [Broker] Fixed issue on RRD error messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Broker] Fixed an issue with RRD error messages being incorrectly added to the logfile.
```

## Centreon Gorgone

### 25.10.2

Release date: `December 17, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

- [Gorgone] Fixed Gorgone whitelist to allow NRPE service discovery.

> - [Packaging] Fixed a issue that cause an upgrade failure due to centreon-perl-libs split into centreon-perl-libs and centreon-perl-libs-common.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Packaging] Fixed an issue that cause an upgrade failure due to centreon-perl-libs being split into centreon-perl-libs and centreon-perl-libs-common.
```

## Centreon DSM

### 25.10.1

Release date: `December 17, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [DSM] Fixed an issue on dsmd daemon stuck on start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DSM] Fixed an issue with dsmd daemon being stuck on start.
```

- [Translation] Added missing French translations.

</details>

### 25.10.0

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed an XSS vulnerability in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.
```

## Centreon Open Tickets

### 25.10.1

Release date: `December 17, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [GLPI] Fixed group retrieval when using versions 9.5 and above.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [Open Tickets] Fixed an issue that exposed the password when using EasyVista.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Open Tickets] Fixed an issue that exposed passwords when using EasyVista.
```
